

...

Dec. 22, 2017
Friday 2:00pm
Amtrak train from NYC to WRJ

What is the idea of Community.lawyer? What is the grand vision? What does the world look like if we're successful? Or, what do you hope it will look like?

First, let me introduce myself, as is the custom in the current state of writing: Self-Aware Sincerity and a constant check on our context, relative privilege, and, most importantly, effect on others. My name is Thomas "Toma", I'm a 32 year olds, white, preferred pronouns 'He' and 'Them'. I was born in France, grew up in New Hampshire, and went to law school in Scotland. Two years ago I moved to Brooklyn. Shortly after I was accepted into a fellowship at Blue Ridge Labs @ Robin Hood. The fellowship was a journey and deserves it's own essay, for now let me say that by the end of it I was a cofounder in Community.lawyer.

Community.lawyer is a small enterprise that seeks to make impact / money by developing software for so-called modest means legal services.

A big of background about the state of our legal system.

First, what the fuck is the purpose of the legal system? What value is it meant to provide?

When I use the term "Legal system" I'm referring to the apparatus we use, or is used against us, to enforce the rights, prohibitions, and obligations we're under. When my rent is raised beyond a reasonable amount, I use the Legal System to cancel the debt my landlord is unduly trying to place on me. When the police pull me over and take me into custody for position of prohibited plants, it's the Legal System I've fallen into. It's a broad term.

The purpose of the Legal System is to make all the rights, obligations, and prohibitions we're under more accessible, predictable, and fair. Some legal systems work better than others. Speaking to fellow Americans, our legal system doesn't work nearly as well as intended. In New York,  ____ people go to court without a lawyer each year, xx% of them for issues like eviction, deportation, custody, and consumer financial protection. Another 2.5 million people each year have legal issues but decide to not use the legal system to address them.

It's important to remember what this looks like exactly. Consider Kelsey, a 34 year old Queens native who was harrassed at work, quit, fell behind rent payments, had a medical insurance claim denied, and now is facing eviction. For better or worse, the Legal System is their best hope of getting out of this situation (maybe your landlord will agree to find some arrangement that can help you, but most of us are strangers to each other and our relationships are contracts).

At Community.lawyer, we currently provide bar associations and other groups of lawyers with a platform to operate what's known as a lawyer referral service. These services mean to help local communities understand their legal issues and connect to qualified lawyers for advice and representation. From the public's perspective, our platform looks like a new website. From the lawyers' and LRS administrators' it looks like a new CMS.

Our vision is that we you have a legal problem, you go to your local LRS website and take meaningful steps towards resolving your problem. You can figure out whether you qualify for free, or reduced-fee, legal help and then find it. You can buy a 35 min phone call with a lawyer for up to $40. That lawyer can "diagnose" your issues, help you figure out an objective, lay out the next steps, then estimate how much each next would cost if you decided to use some sort of service.

And we want to introduce new services. New packagings of services that you can discover and beginning working on from your home. More affordable because they don't involve direct, old school legal representation throughout. These new services will take advantage of the increasing accommodations made by legal ethic boards on so-called unbundling.

...

The Design of Business.
Moving an idea along the Knowledge Funnel.
How to go from Idea to Repeatable Procedure.
Designing a Social Impact Business Model.

Where I'm Coming From
This section is about me, about how I've come to inhabit this point of view. This isn't necessary to understand my theory on designing a business model, so please don't hesitate to skip ahead. If, however, you aim to challenge my theory, which I sincerely hope you do, then this section may arm you with the data you need to find bias in my reasoning.

...

How to Start, or Starting with an Idea
A business model is an idea that has been picked apart and transformed into a procedure, an algorithm that, barring anomalies, guarantees success. There are many different kinds of challenges to creating a successful business model (this is part of what makes it so interesting), each associated with a different stage in the process. At the earliest stage, at the point where you are trying to find an idea to work with, the challenge requires intuitive thinking. This is the ability to know without thinking and to act with imperfect information. Intuitive thinking thrives in certain environments, suffocates in others. Imagine being put into a locked room and told to generate a winning idea before coming out, or being limited to enunciating every part of your idea or none of it. Intuitive thinking is creative thinking and it cannot live in those environments. Your mind needs to be free, unconcerned with whether you have the authority or permission to act.

How to discover an idea
- broad research
- autonomy
- creativity + inspiration

Discovering an idea isn't easy, but it may be the easiest challenge in the stages of creating a successful business model. We tend to discover ideas naturally as they are often a byproduct of play. What's more difficult is pulling an idea down the earth and actually doing something with it.

At this stage, you don't need to, nor generally can you, implement the entirety of an idea. You should focus on those essential components that must be true for the idea as a whole to stand. This is an exercise in both reasoning, finding that essential event that needs to happen to trigger everything else the idea requires, and discipline because you have a limited supply of time and resources.
